# N.T. Wright

N.T. Wright is a New Testament scholar, theologian, and retired Anglican bishop. He is known for his work on the historical Jesus, Pauline theology, and early Christianity.

> This kind of 'Christian nationalism' is, as it were, an ideological accident waiting to happen. It presents a standing temptation, whenever the on-earth-as-in-heaven message of the New Testament has been sidelined in favour of the supposedly 'spiritual' teaching of 'going to heaven', either in the ascent of the soul after death or in a 'rapture' at the Lord's return.
> The result is clear: the 'powers' are still dictating the terms. You can always tell. Idols demand sacrifices; the sacrifices are often human. Jesus said, after all, that the difference between his kingdom, which was not 'from this world', and those kingdoms that *were* 'from this world' was that if his kingdom had been of the ordinary kind then his followers would fight. When a supposed 'Christian nationalism' goes hand in hand with a culture that glorifies violence, and the means of violence, at whatever level; where the churches are so divided that they have no collective witness with which to speak the truth to the powers in question; where people ignore the regular biblical insistence on the love of enemies, and the goal of a single multi-ethnic worshipping community, and prefer de facto ethnically based separate assemblies; where truth ceases to matter, either because it is deconstructed into 'my truth' and 'your truth' or because political leaders so obviously tell lies - then the gospel, the *euangelion*, is being denied, irrespective of how many people within 'the system' think of themselves as *evangelisch* or 'evangelical'. Jesus warned against mistaking the work of God's holy spirit for the work of the devil. There is equal danger the other way round, when people suppose they are working for God while unthinkingly serving the 'powers'. {cite}`wright2024powers` (pg. 70-71)